"European Union lawmakers are considering whether current rules aimed at limiting the practice of geoblocking across the bloc should be extended to 
cover access to streaming audio-visual content. Access to services like Netflix tends to be gated to individual EU Member States, meaning Europeans 
can be barred from accessing libraries of content offered elsewhere in the region. So if you’re trying to use your Netflix subscription to access the 
service after moving to another Member State, or want to access inventory offered by Netflix elsewhere in Europe, the answer is typically a big fat no,
ve  reported before . This undermines the core concept of the EU’s Single Market (and the Digital Single Market — aka the frictionless e-commerce 
end-goal which rules such as those limiting geoblocking aim to deliver). The Commission is alive to ongoing issues around online access to audio-visual
 content. In a  review  of the two-year-old Geo-blocking Regulation published today, it says it will kick off discussions with the audio-visual 
 sector on ways to improve consumer access to this type of copyrighted content across the bloc. It says the planned talks will feed its upcoming 
 Media and Audiovisual Action Plan — which aims to help European market players scale up and reach new audiences. However, it’s not committing 
 to any specific actions as yet. So whether the push yields anything more nuanced than another “no” remains to be seen. (The movie industry being
  a blocker to freer digital flows of content is, after all,  not a new story .) “Increased access and circulation of audiovisual content will 
  benefit an increasing demand across-borders, including in border regions and with linguistic minorities,” the Commission suggests in a  press 
  release  on its review of the current rules. It notes that on average a European consumer only has access to 14% of the films available online
   in all the Member States as a whole (the EU27), with “significant variations” by country (such as viewers in Greece having access only to 
   1.3% of the films available online in the EU, versus those in Germany having access to 43.1%). Its review also highlights growing demand 
   (especially for younger age ranges) to access audio-visual content offered in other Member States — noting it almost doubled between 2015
    and 2019 (from 5% to 9%). “A  2019 Eurobarometer  confirmed that there is interest in gaining access to audio-visual content offered in 
    different Member States,” it adds. For other types of copyrighted content — including music, e-books and videogames — the Commission sounds
     less convinced of the need for regulatory reform. “The Report concludes that a further extension of the scope would not necessarily 
     bring substantial benefits to consumers in terms of choice of content, as the catalogues offered are rather homogeneous (in many instances 
     beyond 90%) among Member States,” it writes, also flagging “potential impacts” on the price of such services in Member States 
     (which can vary). After 18 months of application of the current Geo-blocking Regulation (in force since December 2018), the Commission 
     review lauds progress in reducing some obstacles — claiming there’s been “a stark reduction in barriers caused by location requirements, 
     from 26.9% down to 14% of approximately 9,000 websites surveyed”. “Such restrictions prevent users from attempting to register to foreign 
     websites due to a postal address in another Member State, and is important because registration is a key stage of the online shopping process,” 
     it notes. “A further decrease in restrictions that users faced when trying to access websites cross-border was reported (e.g. users were denied 
     access or automatically rerouted), the remainder of which was residual (only 0.2% of websites blocking access).” It also credits the regulation 
     with boosting the amount of cross-border delivery purchases, saying the increased access to cross-border websites provided by regulation led to 
     an increase of 1.6% in the EU27 compared to 2015, adding that a third of the surveyed websites offered cross-border delivery. Commenting in a 
     statement, the internal market commissioner, Thierry Breton, said: “This first review of the Geo-blocking Regulation already shows first positive
      results. We will further monitor its effects and discuss with stakeholders, notably in the context of the Media and Audio-visual Action Plan to 
      nsure the industry can scale up and reach new audiences, and consumers can fully enjoy the diversity of goods and services in the different EU Member States.” At last an end to geoblocking in Europe? Nope, not by a long chalk…",
